One of the greatest strengths of public media in the US is its mandate for total financial transparency. Seriously. Go to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting's website, or that of any public radio or television station, and look in their "About" sections. You'll find an incredible amount of all kinds of disclosures, including detailed financial audits.

You'll find enough data to start making informed insights about how the CPB funds different entities in different areas of the US, including calculating how much they allocated per person per state. On average, the CPB spent $1.79 per person in each state on public broadcasting. But that's not the kicker: As you can see on the first attached chart, the CPB allocated $13.73 per person in Alaska. That's an astounding 7x the average. For people outside of Alaska's cities, public media is often the only broadcast news option they have. It literally becomes a lifeline.

Additionally, you'll see that per person allocation is generally higher in the Midwest (darker means higher spending). Dividing the 50 states up into equal thirds according to 2023 Census data shows that the bottom 1/3 of US states receive over 2x of CPB funding per person than the upper 2/3rds. That means, generally speaking, US states with a population under 3 million receive an average of $2.65 per person.

But what about politics? Fairness is often discussed as a criticism of the public media system. I won't get into editorial content here, but dividing the states up into their 2024 Electoral College results and averaging their per-person spending by the CPB shows something interesting: Blue and Red states had a nearly identical distribution. In fact, as you can see in the attached pie chart, states that voted Republican had a slight edge over states that voted Democrat.

You don't have to take my word for it: I've uploaded all my raw data to this repository. This data came directly from the CPB's website, 2023 Census data, or electoral maps from November 2024.

It is the charge of public media to "ensure that all citizens of the United States have access to public telecommunications services," and I believe the data show exactly that. Support public media. Find your nearest public TV or radio station and give. Keep this vital source of independent journalism alive.
